okay I started the recording it's nice
to see you all is 2020 a new year a new
hope here is the link to the crib pad
for all of the notes take a look if you
have initiatives or things that you're
working on oversaw I realize I don't say
this every time but if you have
initiatives and things you're working on
and that we should rate you feel that we
should actually be talking about them
please add it here I've added UNIX fSV
1.5 which I've realized we should have
been talking about or at least flagging
here for a long time now and we have not
so it's there now I think Peters gonna
give us a quick update on the spec side
of things and alex is out out of town at
the moment until Wednesday so he will be
back in yeah he knows more about it on
the J implementation side of things but
aside from that welcome to the ipfs core
implementations weekly sync it's january
it's the 6th
it's 20/20 new decade welcome everyone
Jacob has wanted to be a note-taker
thank you very much if you have if
you're here and have a update for what
you've been working on that you would
like people to look at asynchronously
then please add it to the bottom of the
document there is a space for you and
the template for you to follow
we won't go for it in the meeting but
it's just for everyone to to be able to
keep up to date with everyone else's
progress on things and other than that
we have a note-taker if you are if you
are here also please to add yourself to
your attendees list on the on the
document just so that we know who who is
here each time and we will get on with
going through the initiatives and
initiatives other the big chunks of work
that we we're working on and that
we need to be updated so let's let's
start with up Cummings and or shipped
release things Stephen you have written
some words here oh yeah
so I'm proposing a release or sorry
about release for business yeah I guess
we have some network crashers dinner
causes people where the problems and the
unhappy obviously also the car person
does not build on
1.13 we thought what this doing this a
while ago and decided not to do it
because believes was right in the corner
and at least is still right around the
corner so we think we should probably do
this I was think about it for three
years but I didn't want to say and
here's this nice bug fix release like on
New Year's he even and give people
upgrade then but now that Dylan is a
past it'll take some of my time but I
think it's worth doing this unless
objections so a large part will just be
the communication and well basically
something to do is we need to figure out
which crashes you want to actually take
so just go through the entire like all
the different you know first of all like
this could generate infiltrate jobs for
doing real release go through all of
those changes and say okay which pieces
to actually keep which can only be a few
things but then we try pick those two
circle at 4.20 two branches of repos we
have to create more branches of repos
and like did everything enjoyed like in
like a separate branch branch officer
for 22 he's doing a passion about cops
release which is kind of going that
should take maybe a couple of days after
that then communication around like the
release process like hey we didn't
release we have to do a short release
process which is like make sure
everything is green and see if CI which
is true for example if we're going to
should so a true and like make sure this
runs well gateways which should be fine
yeah really like this is just
please it's not there's not that much to
do but it'll still take a couple of days
so just like you know make me an open um
do we have a rough idea right away we
have four minutes Eric five others um in
terms of that ones that's the next
update so upgrade testing it breath
release process we had the holidays
there's everything what I'll pause but
at this point it works well enough for
local testing so like if you just want
to I take it for a spin and so one thing
we do right now is like basic DHE tests
like hey how does huge team work when
you're running much of notes it like
someone we can seen something I was like
so packet loss rate in that kind of
stuff it should also be usable for basic
that's pop tests I can't set it variable
agencies to kill excited about this
latency well yeah you can't say like I
want this latency this pH in this tree
it's late to this year however each node
can technically set like low latency
it's kind of funky because like you can
only set egress latency about latency
I'm so like if you make your node like
really hot I can see you won't actually
victory about it only if I drop out
speed but that's probably fine for the
list of proxy a like check and see like
if this wall works or like you have some
peers and set like really high egress
late and seeing something lowest latency
or especial something really hollow
about bandwidth I think you can see like
hey do we prefer peers that like have
more bail was available something like
that so these are just you know run
pretty easily
the main missing features are blocking
internet connections they setting these
two specific peers and running multiple
versions of ipfs and so with that at the
same time at least from like the local
testing side of things from the like
large-scale testing side of things I'm
not sure the correct statuses but it's a
work in progress
yeah
I vote that you do release the patch
release and I'm I'm kind of more
interested in why why we just didn't do
it before and how we can keep the
cadence well going so he's going
forwards instead of like waiting for
this for sure it's like said 0.5 has
been like in the pipeline for a long
time and everyone to understand that
it's been delayed by getting test ground
I'm so su but like it would be cool if
we could just keep keep the bug fixes
going in the meantime yeah so this thing
is like we aren't doing feature releases
to everybody who tries like taking the
specific patches we want to include and
like putting out some branches and
getting it all ready and the motivation
previously was hey doesn't build a 1.13
there's not insanely big motivation
because lucky were so easy one to and it
was silver leaf right there and people
just use the real binaries or like craps
things and it goes working fine mostly
as a motivation now is this crashing
book which is a lot so that's why this
one's changed but like we have other
bugs but they weren't like critical
things would actually trigger our
control ease as competitors usually
happens for this water pipe list I would
like you have something actually an
issue and people actually upgrades now
where you can't just wait for another
release because it does take time a
quick question about the panic due to
WebSocket issues we saw that hit in the
gateways like it just spiked one day but
you know it hadn't been any go ipfs
releases and one no did anyone get any
more information on war ranged no this
is actually really annoying we have no
idea what was causing it we found
exactly where the bug is for a second
beyond where the bug was being triggered
we have a patch now it appears to fix
the bug because we just take a bunch of
locks we still don't know why we have to
take those locks
he doesn't make any sense we've spent a
long time debugging it and trying to
figure out how what actually happened
here why are these things like running
same time I shouldn't
basically code looks totally fine it
looked kind of funky but totally fine so
we just have locks like you dealt with
it yeah so the number of like crashes
now is much lower we're only getting a
few people recording them for a while I
was like we're really high I don't know
what someone was testing uh I bet it
seemed like someone was testing some
kind of the first or FS and they didn't
come to us like hey we're noticing crap
or like I got so we don't know
yeah the gateway since we deployed the
patch of barely we've had like one
occurrence every three weeks or so name
yeah so well there were two but which
path is that be able to play oh you put
a new version of gbic okay yeah that
means the bugs still there somewhere the
bug is still there but it's very much
attenuated I in the gateways in like
most of us notes are still running Tier
one for twenty two and we have not been
getting as many complaints about people
are still saying yeah crashes every few
days which is not not good now this is
all like high loaded nodes if you gotta
go like my personal note just well I
could find out running delays faster but
it was a question right wasn't so I
think get the bad fats or and and go
yeah cool okay in which case the only
news I have on Jeff s is that last year
we didn't manage to get out a
pre-release but the the work that I
wanted to get done has been done it is
literally just a case of going through
to test now and fixing them up and I had
very little time over the holidays to
actually do that so so that kind of
paused and I picked it up today and
there is just a set of tests that need
to be done now and then then it was it's
done and we can really supremely so I
wanted to finish that off tomorrow and
hopefully everybody's can go out the
door
so that's that
okay let's move on to upgrade the
testing and infirm presses we covered a
little bit about this already
um I don't know he's typing right now
but what they like to give him that's
right describe it okay
come in which case we want to stop the
main gateway and Lydell would you like
to give nothing on this one
yep the superior Ingo ipfs repo when
Steven starts is working on adding
subdomain Gateway support like native
support out of the box to go activist
and we sort of like try to figure it out
the more the most flexible the most
useful way to represent gateway
configuration in like go idea first
config because we got not only the path
space which way when you go to X some
domain and then /a k FS / ready
you also got now we are adding subdomain
so we got CID the host header and we
always had the DNS link so the at least
three types of gateways that we sort of
need to both support what also gives
people X ability to be able to maybe
just run one type maybe just run DNS
link for that one specific domain their
own and they don't want to allow
arbitrary stuff to be returned by their
gateway if someone points some other
domain at their own IP things like that
so it's I think we are we got a pretty
good team to represent stuff in a way
where we can add more features maybe
gateway types or like settings / gateway
type or specific hostname
so I think if we get like more eyeballs
on it and there are no red flags I think
we'll just move forward with the
implementation I think I will probably
take this over from Steven and do go and
then probably do the same thing in jail
so making sure we got the same of config
and implementation both yeah yeah I just
I thought that it to like design review
section here just to like if someone is
like interested or had in the past a
specific need around text configuring
sub domain features somehow I think
relevant but yeah unless there's like
any red flag I'll probably get to this
after my backlog yeah what are the
remaining pieces of base first two and
like subdomain gateway the way we're
missing now so the like this this config
option is so this isn't this isn't like
it's not a dependency of of getting it
done but it was it would just be good to
have it or is it something that is oh
it's actually it's actually when you try
to implement it you really you could
quickly realize you got like edge cases
when you got local gateway and you don't
want to have both a sub-domain gateway
and path based gateway on the same host
name because that you've got basically
like the origin separation is useless so
you need to have like either so you need
to think both how this will work in
local gateway and subject that so that
the country was the hardest part I think
now then what's remaining to be done is
like implementing it so so it's like the
configurations wanting and now
implementing native support for
basically what is in coming in the house
header to the existing gateway
functionality we got like gateway in go
ipfs and in Jessica first go already
looks at the house header for DNS linked
websites now it needs to be like expert
extended to support those CDs in
subdomain I think that will be more or
less I think we should have that it
should be fairly easy to add support for
like proxy mode for on a gateway port
because that's like tiny implementation
detail more or less and that's who but
but the most important part is like
having support on the local gateway and
that will unlock a lot of stuff like on
the operating systems which supports
local subdomains we we could like enable
redirect to more secure host names on
localhost so this is like a blocking all
all the remaining stuff and it's not
it's sort of like not forcing us to
switch the CID v1 as a default we kind
of cannot switch until this land so this
like let prerequisite for this work
don't you okay all right cool any quick
questions for the light Oh before we
move on all right okay so next up is
distributed signaling yeah that'll be on
hold but as soon as we wrap up the async
we refactor oh I'll get back on this
great and is Hugo here they are not to
give an update on here nothing you've
planned okay all right great
so adding performance someone want to
update us on this we've merged
asynchronous rates with better so he's
about is Dorothy only twice as fast as
his deep
so it's class I have not done
manifesting on a hard drive but I seem
faster because they've hired agency
actually have another update that
somewhat oh never led to this it's
related to CID v1 and I go has switched
to providing multinationals instead of
see IDs now and the DHT you switch to
accepting arbitrary byte strings provide
our keys instead of trying to validate
them this means that if you were
announced in CATV ones another night
trying to find CATV zeros there could be
some issues there but this is pretty
uncommon because most people's lives in
CI pb0
icid few zeros to continue working as
expected yes what is the forward
compatibility paths or all the clients
that look at the DHT and get a whole
bunch of stuff that doesn't read it date
stuff about it because multinationals
are valancy idv zeros okay so we so
basically they move the validation
preemptively the stuff that we stupid
initiative fully rated days for now yeah
because we've we've employers audition
we are actually using that the own
people putting our CD zeros which still
fell our site very multi hashes which
are catv zeros which Atal validate we
just moved it because like there was
actually no reason for it the only thing
we really validate was like it's not too
long which is what Bella English okay
questions on this cool Thank You Steven
oh yeah okay so migration tonight eh
geez that no work has been done on that
that's on hold temper now duck do you
have a bit swap update for us today
no too much of an update so basically
I've been working on recording the
concept changes I'd be making to
JavaScript version Pittsburgh so it's
more of a question I guess like I guess
with Steven I'm trying to side whether
it's worth taking another swing at the
test ground stuff or I should wait a
little bit until until it stabilizes so
it's sort of a bit more polished I think
it should be ready for testing it's what
especially right like setting ladies and
bandwidths and I see what happens there
it's not good even for testing multiple
versions if it's wrong but it should
give you a decent like like so anything
HS plan it like since of us actually
already have this plan but like
improving that specially set late in
season like see what happens it doesn't
pick the right note I think is worth it
it's going to be again a different key
because like I you you can only set
egress Lincoln sees so unless you like
if I have some node and I set like
really high eager latencies and like
other note set low egress latencies and
they're not symmetric then like I don't
think me a long time since I do you
people think you us and send it to me
but at the end of the day like Miss
Walker should actually care about this
like it should it should look as if it
just like a single but we only really
care what a trip latency not like the
new directions II
presence yeah I like one other thing I I
was kind of running into before is the
way that I've written my test plan it's
kind of like a generic test plan that
you apply parameters to but then like
they didn't seem to be anything within
test craft for orchestrating running a
whole bunch of these with different
parameters it's like I wanted tests I
see what yeah I don't think that is
there yet I don't even know if that's
currently on the plan
it's obviously necessary but if you can
make do without it that would be great
enough yeah because like that's just
it's not even playing feature yet if you
can't then could you come to the chest
for a meeting and bring this up that's
cool so so at the mat you won't be so
you'd won't be able to test against
multiple versions of bits what but you'd
be able to test your new code with lots
of new notes that are also new code
right yes yeah
and then further like the test plans can
you just create lots of test plans and
then just import your original one and
give it parameters like create test
plans for hard-coded parameters if you
can't do that
the problem is like you need to spin up
the test cluster from outside and the
teratoma can tear down the in theory you
could do this within a single task feel
like you can have a test with a bunch of
stages and like everyone syncs in round
one States and syncs around next days in
the syncs around the next stage so like
you could actually that's where you can
set a set of grandmother's works like
test this through this this this of this
and like cross them with the settings
and then in the actual test case you'd
have a for loop the very first thing
would be like you know do the basic set
up start everything and then like
internally you just like spin up off
your nose shut them down spin it well we
know it's shutting down spit of all you
guys and show them down it's not perfect
because like you would want to make sure
that you don't have like
cross-contamination between the test
rounds but it would actually work it's
not the best way to do this though
ideally view like you would be able to
specify a set of parameters and then
tell Fusco hey and here's the matrix of
grammars in water why don't you okay
alright so moving on hit the async await
stuff
would you like to go first sure yes so
we are going to work towards an RC this
week we'll probably publish another
pre-release tonight with all of the
latest fixes that we have and then try
to get Narsee out the door this week
pending some finalized integration with
JSI BFS to make sure we've worked out
any of the major bugs and then we'll
just be working on finishing up the
examples and then getting all of our
Interop tests finalized let's go and is
think it nice cool yeah things are
looking good so far I'm so enjoy your
test that I'm currently just chugging
free to test like I said before I've
done base I've basically done all in the
work that I wanted to do on it and it's
just getting tests passing and I'm
finding bits I need to change bits that
I didn't change that I should have
changed and stuff for that so and the
majority of them are now passing and I'm
hoping to finish the tests tomorrow
because there's not that many mortar to
get done and so yeah this there's the
core interface tests are passing the CLI
Tessa passing the HTTP API Tessa passing
and the I said there's some other other
core tests sir need to be sorted and the
swarm API tests for all of those things
are currently being skipped and that's
partly due to some issues with needle a
bit B but there's part of the gonna be a
part of the integration and you see a
result but I'm sure it should be pretty
easy to pull out so yeah we are
approaching the end of that which is
great all right and so if no one has any
questions on that
then it is the UNIX version 1.5 what is
going on with that all right so yeah I
will give an update on that access
behalf actually came into this effort
pretty late but basically where we are
at with that is we have an agreed upon
placement of the method
remains optional we know where it's
going to be within a directory structure
basically there will be a separate block
between the directory and the actual
data which will contain the necessary
pieces and this block is supposed to be
small enough that it can be inlined into
each directory entry but it's still a
separate block and the idea is that
whenever we add files in the future that
the cid that we print out is the cid of
the metadata block which then points to
the actual that we don't get actual raw
data cid out in the whole configuration
of course this is like way down the road
but that's kind of the idea the actual
method that we're storing right now
we'll concentrate on m time and
permission bid /s that structure on the
permission-based for now we are only
storing the bottom 12 bits which is the
9 permission bits plus sticky SGI dns
you Eddie
and on the M time we are almost finished
figuring out how to do it exactly not
what to do with unspecified and time
whether to create a 0 or not this
conversation still going on right now
and as far as implementing this alex is
working within GSA BFS ieading the main
PR and there have been several tiers on
top of that already merged I cannot
speak for him how far along this season
terms of being able to actually work in
the CLI but he already is the coding
stuff from the babys calls and when
something tells of a network so that's
good progress there and on the go side
as far as I know we haven't started
anything yet it's kinda existing is the
pilot for this to make sure
it works and we'll go from there
that's it cool thank you yeah I from the
gfs side of things the PRS that Alex has
submitted I think he's done with the
work it's just spectators and things
around that like little final bits I
think that need to be sorted out and
yeah then it exists yeah yeah he has he
already has a bunch of tests and so yeah
we can always do it more so yeah that's
cool and go away to fest side of things
like um do you is there any plan for who
might be able to get on a jump on that
or are we waiting for someone to to put
their hand up like Alex I think the
blade was originally Alex I'm not sure
at this point or well Alex or either but
address your child call it mr. Needham
insult I mean I mean once the the actual
cycle started basically where it turns
on a tent that I might get some time but
this will be probably not before last
week of January month later so I'm not
raising a hand yet
okay it's nice to have a spec finalized
and well nearly finalized and a pilot
implementation in in the pipelines
anyway okay so in which case we have
finished the bit about initiatives I'm
sorry we are running over time at the
moment what's up next design review
proposals so it Lytle is this you just
asking people to comment on the
subdomain just indicate someone is
reading code and just scroll through the
proposal gotcha okay any blockers or
asks this week
no any other questions that you want to
ask or anything for the parking lot I
ever read about severe yet go ahead
professor has passing tests they're all
passing at section green it's nice that
it's not a big nose also athletes I
refer so please put your name down if
you're interested if there's no one
actually interested that will just go
with we have I would add my name perfect
alright then in which case we've reached
the end of the document Maddie and so
Jacob will submit a PR to team
management repo on ipfs and you can look
at the notes from there
thank you very much for coming everyone
and I'll see you next time I guess sorry
bye